---
title: Addenda
layout: default
parent: Lab 1
nav_order: 5
published: true
---

# {{ page.parent }}: {{ page.title }}

## Generating the Expo app in the GitHub Classroom repository

Unfortunately, the `create-expo-app` utility and GitHub Classroom don't want to
play nicely together so we'll need to do a few tricks to make this work. The
problem is that the `npx create-expo-app` command complains about the
`README.md` file and `.github/` folder that are part of the lab template. Also,
when you run `create-expo-app` in a blank directory it will initialize a `git`
repository (which will create a `.git/` folder).

The goal is to get all of the files generated by `create-expo-app` (but not the
`.git/` repository) into the same folder (and git repo) that you cloned from
GitHub Classroom. I'll explain two methods here.

### Method 1: Copy the React files

I think this method is easier than the method I originally suggested which is
now documented in 
[Method 2]({{ site.baseurl }}/lab-01/addenda.html#method-2-delete-then-restore-classroom-files),
 below.


{% include lab-01-copy-react-files.md %}


### Method 2: Delete then restore classroom files

In this method you will delete the files that `create-expo-app` complains about
and then restore them using git. A similar solution would be to move the files
out of the folder (instead of deleting them) and then move them back.

1. Open the Git Bash command prompt

2. Enter the directory

    ```bash
    cd lab-01-<github-username>
    ```

3. Delete the files

    Use the following commands or you can delete them in the UI using Explorer
    or your IDE.

    ```bash
    rm README.md
    rm -rf .github
    ```

4. Generate the React Native project

    This command should work in any shell (command line) including PowerShell as
    long as you have installed Node.js with command line tools successfully.

    - `-t expo-template-blank-typescript` selects the blank TypeScript template
    - `--no-install` skips running `npm install` to save time

    ```bash
    npx create-expo-app -t expo-template-blank-typescript --no-install .
    ```

5. Restore the files by checking them out from git

    You can also do this from your IDE.

    ```bash
    git checkout HEAD -- README.md .github/*
    ```

6. Install the Expo and React Native packages

    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

7. Add, commit and push the changes to your repository

    Again, you may use your IDE for this and use any commit message you prefer.

    ```bash
    git add .
    git commit -m "Initial commit for Lab 1."
    git push
    ```

